# Recipe-Analysis

## Analysis
This project will be dealing with a Recipe CSV file and Rating CSV file which can both be found on [food.com](food.com). These files have information about the rating of all recipes by individuals, nutritional information about recipes, and much more. This project deals with the following question: how does the number of steps in a recipe affect the nutrition of the recipe. In general the number of steps in a recipe generally correlates to the amount of actions done to ingredients (like boiling or deep frying) so this question can help answer how exactly the number of steps affects nutrition and whether or not cooking removes or adds nutrition to foods. In particular we will be analyzing carbohydrates, calories, sugar, total fat, saturated fat, sodium, and protein in which all but calories deal with percentage recommended daily intake. We will be dealing the n_steps (number of steps in a recipe) and nutrition as our column and there are totally 83,623 recipes to analyze.

## Cleaning
The Recipe CSV file contain all information about nutrition of recipes, number of steps, and ingredients and the Rating csv file has a bunch of review and a recipe id to connect each review with a recipe. We can merge these two csv files by the recipe id in which now each review also has more information about things like nutrition and ingredients. People must give ratings between 1 and 5 inclusive, however when we look at data frame we observe that there are reviews with rating 0, hence it is reasonable to assume that these are people that didint give a rating hence we can replace all of the 0s with Null value as that would represent no response and has no weight when dealing with things like average rating of recipes. And finally we have the nutrition column, in the initial file given all of the nutrition is given as a list so we must seperate it into each individual nutrition and add seperate columns for each of them. After dropping unnecessary columns we get the following dataframe:
<table border="1" class="dataframe">\n  <thead>\n    <tr style="text-align: right;">\n      <th></th>\n      <th>n_steps</th>\n      <th>avg_rating</th>\n      <th>calories</th>\n      <th>total fat</th>\n      <th>sugar</th>\n      <th>sodium</th>\n      <th>protein</th>\n      <th>saturated fat</th>\n      <th>carbohydrates</th>\n      <th>n_ingredients</th>\n    </tr>\n  </thead>\n  <tbody>\n    <tr>\n      <th>0</th>\n      <td>15</td>\n      <td>4.750000</td>\n      <td>384.7</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>70.0</td>\n      <td>159.0</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>6.0</td>\n      <td>3</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th>1</th>\n      <td>5</td>\n      <td>5.000000</td>\n      <td>304.1</td>\n      <td>13.0</td>\n      <td>121.0</td>\n      <td>3.0</td>\n      <td>13.0</td>\n      <td>9.0</td>\n      <td>19.0</td>\n      <td>3</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th>2</th>\n      <td>5</td>\n      <td>4.777778</td>\n      <td>26.8</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>11.0</td>\n      <td>5.0</td>\n      <td>2.0</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>1.0</td>\n      <td>14</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th>3</th>\n      <td>2</td>\n      <td>5.000000</td>\n      <td>40.7</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>17.0</td>\n      <td>2.0</td>\n      <td>4.0</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>2.0</td>\n      <td>11</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th>4</th>\n      <td>4</td>\n      <td>5.000000</td>\n      <td>146.5</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>0.0</td>\n      <td>4</td>\n    </tr>\n  </tbody>\n</table>